BDM capstone project is a independent research project where u have to collect data particular
to business problem

We need to approach a business can be structured or unstructured

structured (organized ) is  example -> manufacturing automobile 
unstructured  (unorganized) is  (small kirana shops )

Analysis with primary data ->

Preferable choices to approach is a [ unstructured business ]  we ask them and collect the data
How Do you do that  ->  steps in data collection section !

Before We reach out to a business we need to prepare field notes first

Field Notes ->

Whom Did You meet !
What Did you discuss with them ?
What is the Designation of the person  ?

...... And related Questions .....

 And then Understand what is the kind of business is it B2B or B2C  ( Business to Consumer )  !

 B2B -> Business to Business !  and some can in both businesses !

Reach out to them, introduce yourself  ( how later ) and then understand the problems they encounter !

Based on problems understood by you , list down the problem which we feel more appealing to us and 
we kinda use a data centric approach like in BDM theory course

Next  ** we need to provide information about different variables collected as a part of data collection

For Example if -> sales is going down we need to collect the various assessments why that is happening? -> one may be product portfolio that they have, pricing that they have, How  much is the sales happening in a particular month etc etc can be assessments

Minimum time period for data collection should be not less than three months some time 6 months , sometime 1 year  ( if less than 3 months not possible to deduce any insights from that )

 1) Data Analysis 
 2) We do Data cleaning !  (next) then 
 3) perform data analysis

For Data analysis don't use simple pareto charts  i.e every business knows that 80% problems is
because of 20% issues    (80-20 RULE)

If it is qualitative vs quantitative data  we can use box, whisker plots
if quant vs quant scatter plots etc !

4) Data Insights -> based on this we tell the business what is that they can keep doing , what can they avoid and what should be resolved or started freshly etc!

Submission Phases 

1) Proposal  (20%)
2) Mid Evaluation  (20%)  ( Explanation of Data Collection and cleaning )  
3) Final Submission  (40%)  (Analysis/ Interpretation of data )       (18-20) pages 
4) Viva Voice  (20%)


One Company either One large Problem or 2-3 shorter problems to be carry forwarded in the entire project

1-5 of every month -> proposal submission   results by 10th
6-10 -> midterm submission 
11-15 -> final term

Dates for me can be 

1-5 Feb
6-10 March
11-15 April results by 20th
25 April Viva voice  ( Option may be)


Declaration Statement should be submitted at the start !  of the proposal !

Proposal must be 4-5 pages long
Atleast 2 objectives required in Proposal 

Does Proposal discuss business problem -> should be Yes and plagiarism  < 20%

PROPOSAL

Executive Summary and Title  (200-250 words ) 15 marks
Organization Background (150-200 ) 10 marks
Problem Statement  (100-120 words )
    Pointwise not paragraphs                     10 marks

Background of the Problem   (10 marks )
Problem Solving Approach  (45 marks )
     Details about methods used with justification
     Details about intended data collection with Justification 
     Details about the analysis tools with Justification

Expected Timeline - > WBS and Gantt Chart  (5 marks )
Expected Outcome  (5 marks )




MID TERM SUBMISSION -> 8-9 pages long

Executive Summary and Title  (200-250 ) 15
Proof of Originality of the Data - survey link , photograph, letter from organization etc  (10 marks )
       Letter from organization in letter head with stamp and sign
           Images of the firm/servicescape  (max of 5 )

       A short video 3-8 mins interacting with the founder 

Metadata  (20 marks  )
Descriptive Statistics  (20 marks )
Detailed Explanation of Analytics Process/Method-justification for the usage ,Why is this method more appropriate than the rest   (25 marks )

Results and Findings   (Graphs and other Pictional Representation Preferred and with words )
Clearly explaining the trends , what and why patterns that has been observed in the analysis   (10 marks )


When drawing a graph -> consider why drawing this graph,  why these are the best choice graph , and why are these variables considered and  how is it likely going to solve out business statement


FINAL SUBMISSION  (40 MARKS )  (18-20 PAGES LONG)

Executive Summary and Title -> 15 marks
Detailed Explanation of Analytics Processes/Method  (15 marks )
Results and Findings  (Graphs and other Pictorial Representation) 40
Interpretation of Results and Recommendation  (20 marks )
Presentation and legibility of the report  (10 )
 

For Analysis we can use Excel, R, Python etc



VIVA-VOCE

present a PPT pf 10 slides  (the project)
Presentation Content  (30  marks)
Presentation Quality  (10 marks)
Presentation Flow  (10 marks)
Presenter Communication Skills  (20 marks)
Presenter ability to answer questions  (20 marks)
Presenter's preparedness and confidence  (10 marks)


Reference Textbooks ->

Malhotra N  & Dash,   ( Marketing research : An applied approach Pearson)
Newbold P  (2013)   Statistics for business and economics ,Pearson
Wirtz, J  & Lovelock, C  (2021)  Services marketing ,People technology, strategy
Operations Management : Processes and supply chain [ Twelfth Edition by Lee J Krajewski and others)

 

In video with business owner/manager 

we require , a short intro , problems business is facing , what did they do to solve it , was it recurring/ one time , what are their expectations from this project etc 

Letter from the firm in letterhead with stamp and sign 
How to provide -> submit the drive link 



 **Every report need name and Roll Number
 ** Times New Roman Font  (12) 1.5 spacing left/right justification of fonts
 ** Report written well do not mix passive/active voices , use commas , full stops where ever possible , Ensure Connection Between Sentences and Paragraphs

Every report should have title and should look professional and should communicate what it intends to do

Sample Titles -> 

Optimizing the Customer Support Workflow of an E-learning Programme
Price Prediction and Demand Forecasting for an Industrial Scrap Trading Company

Next is the Executive Summary.....
----------------------------------------

 (Never say I will find loopholes and help increase the 
firm's sale , What we provide is a drop in the Ocean, We can always mention that this 
project will enable the organization to identify the bottlenecks and the solutions provided would help them tackle a few of the issue)

Then Background of the Company
---------------------------------------

Mention about the company and the inception , the founders , net worth, more about the organization structure , what are the offerings, number of employees, locations they are into, the mission and the vision statement

Then Define the Problem Statement
------------------------------------------

Set the agenda why are you meeting them, ,ask more about the offerings and then about the situation of the industry, followed by the problem, Check what they have done to resolve the issues , if unresolved know the reasons, As we proceed further ask the open-ended probing questions, you are likely to arrive at your problem statement
   Mention Objectives -> Pointwise , not paragraphs


Sample Objectives can be..
-------------------------------

i) To improve the efficiency of the existing system in closing customer requests
ii) To determine the important strategies that contribute to relationship building to business markets

in objectives never state as to how you will resolve the problem


Data Collection Process
----------------------------

data collected should be in line with the problem statement/objectives
once we get sufficient variables we decide on plots in line with problem statement
  
If the company faces issues on constant stockouts then data can be...

Opening Stock, closing stock, Buying Price, Selling Price, Demand, Forecast, EOQ, Lead time, etc


Expected Timelines
-----------------------

Timeline Should be explained using WBS and a Gantt Chart , Give a breakup of work you intend to do


Expected Outcomes
-----------------------

Mention what deliverables would be provided ,The likely implications/insights you expect from the project
Insights from graphs after analyzing the data not on intuition

Graphical Analysis from midterm onwards not required for the proposal stage
All the documents need to have page numbers. figure and table numbers wherever applicable 
Justify the rationale for drawing a particular graph,
Reference Books will enhance your understanding


Difference Between B2B and B2C later !
FAQ on BDM project !  (read)
Brief Definition of BDM Capstone Project   (read)

T NAGAR in Chennai  (happening place now !)
Problem Identification Document!
Problems indicated few like...  (read)
 

Problem Statement Identification is the key factor here!
Business problem is different from a technical problem!

